one of the key elements of a successful
garden is soil but you might live way
out in the back 40 this is Nicholas
Stalin from Monrovia nursery we're going
to talk about how to amend the soil
without a soil test so your gardens not
doing well okay you have a problem with
the soil the first thing I would do was
contact your local gardening club or
your local master gardener group these
people are experts in the local area and
they're going to be able to help you
with some of the local issues pertaining
to soil look touch feel your soil it's
kind of like food if food looks good
it's gonna taste good soil when you pick
it up it needs to feel good needs to
feel lonely and rich if it sticks to
your hands like clay gets under your
fingernails chances are you might have a
drainage problem so add some organic
matter some compost if you don't have
any get some from the local garden
center or a friend add some leaf mulch
something natural get that into the soil
slow release fertilizer bring in some
topsoil but make sure you know exactly
the origin of that topsoil and it's good
stuff
Michael rui-zi mycorrhizae is a
naturally occurring fungus in the soil
it might well be that you've not got
that fungus to stimulate the growth to
attach itself to the roots of the plants
and bring back the nutrient that plant
needs mycorrhizae will do that for you
our goal is to improve the structure of
the soil to improve the fertility of the
soil so there are just a few things that
you can try and you will be successful
this is Nicholas Stodden from Monrovia
nursery talking about how to amend soil
without a soil test
you